Ah, that's a very code rich slide title, isn't it, or lecture title, but
it'll all come clear in a moment. So, in this video, we're going to talk about the importance
of knowing your data types. Here you go, it's important you know your data types.
[Laughs] We'll be introducing the standard map data type. We will
immediately substitute TMap for that, so that we keep things Unreal.
We're going to write things how Unreal wants us to. They have a structure called TMap.
We'll talk about how we'll be using the map. Basically,
like that is how you declare the map. You say that I want a
map, which is just a table of characters against booleans.
So, this is have I seen a letter? Letter A, yes! Letter C, yes,
etc. And then, we'll tell you how to use it, basically like that. Letter
Seen[Letter] will access the letter and return a boolean. So, have I seen
A? Have I seen B? So, this simply allows you to say things like, I've seen letter
A, I've seen letter B. Have I seen letter A before? Have I seen letter B before? And then,
we'll be wiring up and pseudo-coding IsIsogram. So, see you in a moment!
So, just before we start, if you do a Google search for
"ue4 libraries" you should find this blog post from April 2014,
by By Billy Bramer, that just overviews Unreal's data
types that we have access to. Containers are things that contain multiple
items, of course, like an array which we'll deal with shortly. A TSET, which
would be a perfectly valid alternative, by the way, for this video. We could use a
TSET. I'm going to be using a map, which is very similar to a set,
a little bit more complex but a little bit more general, which is why I'm going to teach it here.
And then, it talks about a couple of other things, including strings that we've
seen before, FString, FText, etc. So, worth a quick look at that,
and let's dive in! We're going to do ours based on map, as I said, it's more general.
So, let's show you what a map is, by example of how we're
going to use it. So, we're going to use the word hApPy. I've purposefully made the A and
one of the P's upper case, because we want to be able to handle this type of mixed case.
Follow me through one line at a time. So, a map is a Key
with a Value. We're going to have the Keys as Characters and the Values as Booleans, and we're going to
translate all our Characters from upper case to lower case. So, we're going to store just lowercase.
So, this is what we do! We get to h, we store an h, and we say value, we've seen it,
true. We have an a, we translate it down from the capital A to the small
a, and put an a in the table, just saying we've seen an a. Then, we put a
lowercase p, because we've got a lowercase p we've seen a p. When you get to the
second p you translate it from uppercase to lowercase, and we already have a value
of true, so our algorithm is just going to say well, we've already seen this letter, let's dive out
of here. Let's just leave the function. OK, so it's as simple as that! You
literally are keeping track of which letters you have
seen. It's as easy as that! OK, so if you want to find out more
about maps, you can do it in two places. If you want to find out about the standard
maps, that of course we're using here, because we're not inside Unreal yet,
then, it's "std::map" and you can go and have a look on www.cplusplus.com.
You've got a couple of different articles here, and it will show you how to use it.
It looks a little bit cryptic, you're probably better off finding some example code somewhere.
In here, for example, you see some example code. So, this
is defining a map of a character and an integer, very similar to us but we're going
to be having a boolean here. Their calling it first, we're going to call it letter seen. And then,
they're assigning things to it like this, so they're saying first, the letter,
equals 10. So, that's a map, it's just a pair of values. OK, there's also the
Unreal map and that's called a TMap, and we're going to make a substitution so that
we use the word TMap. And here is one example of finding out about
TMaps. TMap there and they tell you all about it. Now, you add
the things in Unreal, a little bit different than using .Add. We're just going to use the previous
syntax we saw over here, for now, and we'll adjust our strategy in Unreal.
OK, so that's an overview of maps, they are relatively simple! Let's dive in
and start getting that working! The first thing you're going to need to do is make
the map library available. So, we need to do a #include
of something called . Now, I'm going to
put it here underneath, because I immediately want to do a define, a #define.
Now, a #define is literally a pre-process or directive like
#include, for Cut and Paste. #include basically goes to an external
file, like a standard library map or this thing we've written, #define is even
simpler than that. #define, let's just look up the syntax.
"#define C++".
www.cplusplus.com will do! The identifier and the replacement, and it's
a textual replacement. OK, so the identifier we
want to use is TMap, because that's the Unreal way of doing things.
And what we want to replace... The replacement is std::
map, which will now be available because we've included #include
::map. So, these two lines I think go together, OK.
So, we're going to use TMap, because we're writing Unreal standard C++. Unreal has its
own data types that override the standard libraries, because they're more suited to the sort of
platforms that we're going to deploy on, when we make games in Unreal.
So, we make that substitution #define TMap standard map. Great!
Now, you may be wondering why they're not using, using, like we did a couple of lines below.
The reason is two fold. Number one, I want to introduce you to more things. In this
case #define, which is simply a Cut and Paste, and you'll be seeing that in Unreal.
And the other thing is that using a using would actually be more complicated,
in this case, because we'd need to get involved in parameters and we just don't need that
complication right now. So, it's simply an alternative and I want to widen your knowledge base.
Alright, so let's now start laying the foundations for doing this. Let's give you your first
challenge of this video! I want you to wire up these isograms. Create yourself a
private function, inside the class. Decide if it should be constant
or not, call it from CheckGuessValidity(), and simply return
true, for now, inside IsIsogram(). IsSiogram() is going to be an empty function,
OK, and your game should behave exactly as it does now,
It's just that it's calling these empty IsIsogram() functions. Go ahead, pause the video, and wire up
IsIsogram() right now.
OK, welcome back! So, let's start in our header file. We're making a
supporting function, for the first time. It's exactly the same as these variables, but this time, it's a
function. What's it going to return? A boolean. What's it going to be called? Is
Isogram(). What's it going to take in? An (FString),
because we're not dealing with User Interface Text. And is it constant? Yes, if I asked the
word IsIsogram(), I don't want to be changing any data
or fields or member variables of this class, do I? I'm just asking a simple
question. Space this out a little. So, bool IsIsogram! Let's go ahead and
implement it! This is all revision for us. So, that's in the C++ file.
IsIsogram(), I said I wanted it to return true in the challenge slide,
so let's do that! And the reason is, that where we call it up here,
we're going to say if not (!IsIsogram)
passing in the (Guess)) "// if
the guess isn't an isogram". Yes, it matches the comment! That's fantastic! Alright, so
if not (!IsIsogram(Guess)) then we can get
rid of this TODO, because we are in the process of writing IsIsogram().
Let's check that our code runs as it used to! If I put in "aa" it
says, "enter a 6 letter word". If I put "ab", 6 letter word. Boom!
OK, so it's running as it did before! I have a
second challenge for you, focusing our attention on the IsIsogram() method! By the way,
one way of jumping around your code is to, click the name of the method and hit F12,
or if you right-click you can see that shortcut there, Go To Definition. A useful one for jumping
around your code. So, what we're going to be doing in here is asking you to
pseudocode IsIsogram(). Only write comments,
indent the comments as they're needed, avoid code in the comments working at a high level,
and run through mentally with some examples. Now, we're going to be using the
#table solution to this, as you may have guessed, with map. This is
as I said in the table example, we're just going to go through the word, keeping track of the letters we've
already seen. Very natural, very much as a human does it. So, pause the video and
pseudocode only IsIsogram() now!
So, welcome back! Let's pseudocode this! Well firstly, I want to think about the extreme cases
What happens if they send in a blank string or a string of just length 1?
We need to make a decision on what that would do. If we're running a
game and I put in nothing, what do we want it to say? Something like "Enter a 6 letter
word.", even if I put in a single letter. How about if I put in forward-slash
0. Hmm? [Laughs] Anyway, we'll worry about that in a bit! So,
a single letter or an empty string I think should be
considered an isogram, so that it falls through to the enter
the correct word length, because you can't have repeating letters
in a 0 or 1 letter word. So, consider or treat.
Yeah, "// treat
0 and 1 letter
strings" or "words" let's call it...
..."as isograms", which is probably going to mean return
true. I may as well have something here to hang onto, a variable name called Word. Then,
what are we going to do? We're going to "// loop through all the
letters of the word", and then, for each letter we're going to say
"// if the letter is in the dictionary"
or "in the map" we are just going to... Well, then "// we
do NOT have an isogram",
which is probably going to mean return false, but I don't want to write code here. "// otherwise"
we're going to "// add the
letter to the map
as seen". So, we're going to add the letter with true. Then,
what are we going to do, if we do get down to the bottom here? We should never really get to the bottom here,
because one of these two things should end up happening. But the compiler will complain if
we don't leave something like return true; at the bottom, because it won't realize that all of these code
paths are jointly exhausted. So actually, if the user
entered forward-slash 0, that's the escape character, say that's the end of
a string. And what would actually happen, depending on how you implement your loop
here, is it would probably not go through this loop at all.
And it would probably end up getting down here, because if you're depending on
also how you implement this, you might here say if Word.Length
is less than or equal to 1 or something. Well, if you put in forward-slash 0, it'll
probably jump through both of these. So, I think it's a reasonable thing to actually say that, if we make it to the
bottom, we return true. "// for example in
cases where /0 is entered".
It's a very esoteric case, we do need to think about the fact that we could end
up there. So, I'm going to return true and just leave that there. So, that's my
pseudocode, and it's as, I say, simple as that really but it's a simple
loop! Now, in the next video, we're going to talk about how you loop through all of the letters of the word, because we've
showed you how to do it, kind of brute force, where you use your own iterators and stuff,
but common, there's got to be a better way! And there is a better way and that's called a ranged for loop,
which is going to automatically go through all the letters, without us worrying about all the details of
how many letters there are. So, that's what we're going to look at next!